S Arya, Arya: Page number ninety-three.
S Arya, Arya: The next day it was definitely ascertained that the citizens of Moscow had no communication to make to the conquering leaders. Soon after daylight the army moved towards the city.
S Arya, Arya: The suburbs were deserted, the houses stood with a closed shutters and locked doors, not so much as the dog awaited the
S Arya, Arya: Brian sent entry to this through the city gates.
S Arya, Arya: Long streets without a living being from end to end, met the eyes of those dating organizers of triumphal entries, who had been sent forward to clear a path and raise the respectful citizens on either hand.
S Arya, Arya: But there were no citizens. There was not a single witness to this triumph of the greatest army the world had seen, led across Europe by the first captain
S Arya, Arya: in all history, to conquer a virgin capital.
S Arya, Arya: The various corps must to their quarters in silence,
S Arya, Arya: with nervous glances at the shuttered windows. Some breaking rank ventured into the churches which stood open.
S Arya, Arya: The candles were lighted on the altar. They reported to their former ads in a hust voice when they returned, but there was no one there. Certain places were selected as headquarters for the general offices and the chiefs of various departments. As often as
S Arya, Arya: not a summons would be answered, and the door opened by an
S Arya, Arya: of sequence. Porta, who handed the keys to the first comma, but he spoke no French, and only cringed in silence when addressed
S Arya, Arya: others. Other doors were broken in. It was like a play acted in dump show on an immense stage.
S Arya, Arya: It was this fighting and incomprehensible
S Arya, Arya: even to the oldest campaign,
S Arya, Arya: while the young fire eaters fresh from sent,
S Arya, Arya: where, strangely depressed by it, there was a smell of servant smoke in the air, a suggestion of inevitable tragedy
S Arya, Arya: on the crash. Now, your
S Arya, Arya: the great red Square, which is the central point of the old town. The soldiers were already buying and selling. This oil rested from the burning exchange. It seemed that the citizens, before leaving, had collected their
S Arya, Arya: merchandise in this building to burn it
S Arya, Arya: to the rank and file. This meant nothing but an income principal stupidity to the educated and the thoughtful. It was another evidence of that dump and Sullen
S Arya, Arya: capacity for infinite self-sacrifice which makes Russians different from any other race, and which has yet to be reckoned with in the history of the world;
S Arya, Arya: for it will tend to the greatest good of the greatest number,
S Arya, Arya: and is a powerful, and is a power for national
S Arya, Arya: aggrandizement quite un
S Arya, Arya: attainable by any Latin people.
S Arya, Arya: Charles, with the other officers, Prince Eugene's staff, was quoted in a place on the
S Arya, Arya: Petrota,
S Arya, Arya: that wide street running from Kremlin northward to the
S Arya, Arya: Boulevards and the pox going towards it, he passed through the bazaars
S Arya, Arya: base number ninety-four, and the muds in Qatar,
S Arya, Arya: where, like an army of rack pickers, the eager looters were silently hurrying from heap to heap. Every warehouse had it seemed, been ransacked, and it's contents thrown out into the streets. The first commerce add carried on,
S Arya, Arya: seeking something more valuable, more portable. Leaving the later arrivals to turn over their garbage like dogs upon a dusty.
S Arya, Arya: The pillagers were nervous and ill, at least, as men must always be in the presence of something they do not understand the most experienced of them. And there, where some famous robbers in Murad's vanguard had never seen an empty city abandoned,
S Arya, Arya: all standing as the Russians had abandoned Moscow
S Arya, Arya: Huskins at the toll houses at the open doors of the empty churches, and they kept together for company's sake.
S Arya, Arya: Charles's rooms were in moment of Paris, where even the youngest lieutenant had, was departments assigned to him. It was in one of these, a ladies
S Arya, Arya: whoa, where his dust cover baggage had been thrown down carelessly by his orderly on a blue satin sofa that he sat down to write to.
S Arya, Arya: That's why his emotions had been stirred by all that he had passed through by the first side of Moscow, by the passage beneath the gate of the Red Meh, where every man must uncover, and only in there to wear a head
S Arya, Arya: by the bewildering sense of triumph, and the and the knowledge that he was taking part in one of the epochs
S Arya, Arya: of man's history on this earth.
S Arya, Arya: The emotions lie very near together, so that, laughter being aroused, must also touch on tears, and hatred being kindled warm the heart to love.
S Arya, Arya: And here, in this unknown women's room, with the very pen that she had soon aside, Charles, who wrote and spoke his love at such facility, wrote to.
S Arya, Arya: That's really a love letter such as
S Arya, Arya: he had never written before. When it was sealed and address he called his orderly to take it to the officer to whose duty it failed to make up the courier for Germany. But he received no reply. The man had joined his Col. Reds in the busier quarters of the city.
S Arya, Arya: Charles went to the head of the stairs and called again with no better success.
S Arya, Arya: The house was competitively modern, built on the familiar lines of a Paracian hotel with a wide stair descending to an entrance archway, where carriages passed through into a courtyard.
S Arya, Arya: Descending the stairs, Charles found that even the sentry had absented himself from his duty.
S Arya, Arya: His musket, lent against the post of the stone doorway, indicated that he was not far listening. In the silence of that great house Charles heard
S Arya, Arya: Page number ninety-five,
S Arya, Arya: someone at work with hammer and chisel in the courtyard. He went there and found the sentry kneeling at the low door, endeavouring to break it open. The man had not been idle. From a piece of rope slug across his back half a dozen clocks are suspended.
S Arya, Arya: They rattled together like the wears of a traveling in Smith at every moment of his arms. What are you doing there, my friend? Asked Charles. The man held up one finger over his shoulder without looking around, and shook it from side to side, as, not desiring to be interrupted.
S Arya, Arya: The cellar, he answered, always the similar. It is human nature. We get it from the animals.
S Arya, Arya: He glanced around as he worked, and perceiving that he had been addressing an officer, he scrambled to his feet with a grumbled curse. He was an old man bake in the sun. The wrinkles in his face were filled with dust. Since quitting the banks of the Vistula, no opportunity for
S Arya, Arya: evolution seemed to have presented itself to him. He stood at attention, his lips working over sunken gums. I want you to take this letter, said Charles to the officer on service at headquarters, and ask him to include in his career.
S Arya, Arya: It is, as you see, a private letter by wife at dancing.
S Arya, Arya: The man looked at it and grumbled something inaudible. He took it in his hand and turn it over with a slow manner of the elite,